index.rst, before:

.. note::

   Sentence Transformers v5.1 just released, bringing the ONNX and OpenVINO backends to SparseEncoder models. Read `SparseEncoder > Usage > Speeding up Inference <docs/sparse_encoder/usage/efficiency.html>`_ to read more about the performance boosts that you can expect, or read the `v5.1 Release Notes <https://github.com/UKPLab/sentence-transformers/releases/tag/v5.1.0>`_ for information on the other changes.

.. note::

   Sentence Transformers v5.0 was recently published, introducing SparseEncoder models, a new class of models for efficient neural lexical search and hybrid retrieval. Read `Sparse Encoder > Usage <docs/sparse_encoder/usage/usage.html>`_ to learn more about how to use them, or check out `v5.0 Release Notes <https://github.com/UKPLab/sentence-transformers/releases/tag/v5.0.0>`_ for details on the other changes.

SentenceTransformers Documentation
==================================

Sentence Transformers (a.k.a. SBERT) is the go-to Python module for accessing, using, and training state-of-the-art embedding and reranker models.
It can be used to compute embeddings using Sentence Transformer models (`quickstart <docs/quickstart.html#sentence-transformer>`_), to calculate similarity scores using Cross-Encoder (a.k.a. reranker) models (`quickstart <docs/quickstart.html#cross-encoder>`_), or to generate sparse embeddings using Sparse Encoder models (`quickstart <docs/quickstart.html#sparse-encoder>`_). This unlocks a wide range of applications, including `semantic search <examples/sentence_transformer/applications/semantic-search/README.html>`_, `semantic textual similarity <docs/sentence_transformer/usage/semantic_textual_similarity.html>`_, and `paraphrase mining <examples/sentence_transformer/applications/paraphrase-mining/README.html>`_.

A wide selection of over `10,000 pre-trained Sentence Transformers models <https://huggingface.co/models?library=sentence-transformers>`_ are available for immediate use on 🤗 Hugging Face, including many of the state-of-the-art models from the `Massive Text Embeddings Benchmark (MTEB) leaderboard <https://huggingface.co/spaces/mteb/leaderboard>`_. Additionally, it is easy to train or finetune your own `embedding models <docs/sentence_transformer/training_overview.html>`_, `reranker models <docs/cross_encoder/training_overview.html>`_, or `sparse encoder models <docs/sparse_encoder/training_overview.html>`_ using Sentence Transformers, enabling you to create custom models for your specific use cases.

Sentence Transformers was created by `UKPLab <http://www.ukp.tu-darmstadt.de/>`_ and is being maintained by `🤗 Hugging Face <https://huggingface.co>`_. Don't hesitate to open an issue on the `Sentence Transformers repository <https://github.com/UKPLab/sentence-transformers>`_ if something is broken or if you have further questions.

Usage
=====
.. seealso::
  
   See the `Quickstart <docs/quickstart.html>`_ for more quick information on how to use Sentence Transformers.

Working with Sentence Transformer models is straightforward:

.. sidebar:: Installation

   You can install *sentence-transformers* using pip:
   
   .. code-block:: python
   
      pip install -U sentence-transformers
   
   We recommend **Python 3.9+** and **PyTorch 1.11.0+**. See `installation <docs/installation.html>`_ for further installation options.

.. tab:: Embedding Models

   .. code-block:: python
   
      from sentence_transformers import SentenceTransformer
   
      # 1. Load a pretrained Sentence Transformer model
      model = SentenceTransformer("all-MiniLM-L6-v2")
   
      # The sentences to encode
      sentences = [
          "The weather is lovely today.",
          "It's so sunny outside!",
          "He drove to the stadium.",
      ]
   
      # 2. Calculate embeddings by calling model.encode()
      embeddings = model.encode(sentences)
      print(embeddings.shape)
      # [3, 384]
   
      # 3. Calculate the embedding similarities
      similarities = model.similarity(embeddings, embeddings)
      print(similarities)
      # tensor([[1.0000, 0.6660, 0.1046],
      #         [0.6660, 1.0000, 0.1411],
      #         [0.1046, 0.1411, 1.0000]])

.. tab:: Reranker Models

   .. code-block:: python
   
      from sentence_transformers import CrossEncoder
      
      # 1. Load a pretrained CrossEncoder model
      model = CrossEncoder("cross-encoder/ms-marco-MiniLM-L6-v2")
      
      # The texts for which to predict similarity scores
      query = "How many people live in Berlin?"
      passages = [
          "Berlin had a population of 3,520,031 registered inhabitants in an area of 891.82 square kilometers.",
          "Berlin has a yearly total of about 135 million day visitors, making it one of the most-visited cities in the European Union.",
          "In 2013 around 600,000 Berliners were registered in one of the more than 2,300 sport and fitness clubs.",
      ]
      
      # 2a. Either predict scores pairs of texts
      scores = model.predict([(query, passage) for passage in passages])
      print(scores)
      # => [8.607139 5.506266 6.352977]
      
      # 2b. Or rank a list of passages for a query
      ranks = model.rank(query, passages, return_documents=True)
      
      print("Query:", query)
      for rank in ranks:
          print(f"- #{rank['corpus_id']} ({rank['score']:.2f}): {rank['text']}")
      """
      Query: How many people live in Berlin?
      - #0 (8.61): Berlin had a population of 3,520,031 registered inhabitants in an area of 891.82 square kilometers.
      - #2 (6.35): In 2013 around 600,000 Berliners were registered in one of the more than 2,300 sport and fitness clubs.
      - #1 (5.51): Berlin has a yearly total of about 135 million day visitors, making it one of the most-visited cities in the European Union.
      """

.. tab:: Sparse Encoder Models

   .. code-block:: python
   
      from sentence_transformers import SparseEncoder
      
      # 1. Load a pretrained SparseEncoder model
      model = SparseEncoder("naver/splade-cocondenser-ensembledistil")
      
      # The sentences to encode
      sentences = [
          "The weather is lovely today.",
          "It's so sunny outside!",
          "He drove to the stadium.",
      ]
      
      # 2. Calculate sparse embeddings by calling model.encode()
      embeddings = model.encode(sentences)
      print(embeddings.shape)
      # [3, 30522] - sparse representation with vocabulary size dimensions
      
      # 3. Calculate the embedding similarities
      similarities = model.similarity(embeddings, embeddings)
      print(similarities)
      # tensor([[   35.629,     9.154,     0.098],
      #         [    9.154,    27.478,     0.019],
      #         [    0.098,     0.019,    29.553]])

      # 4. Check sparsity stats
      stats = SparseEncoder.sparsity(embeddings)
      print(f"Sparsity: {stats['sparsity_ratio']:.2%}")
      # Sparsity: 99.84%
   
What Next?
==========

Consider reading one of the following sections to answer the related questions:

* Embedding Models:
   * How to **use** Sentence Transformer models? `Sentence Transformers > Usage <docs/sentence_transformer/usage/usage.html>`_
   * What Sentence Transformer **models** can I use? `Sentence Transformers > Pretrained Models <docs/sentence_transformer/pretrained_models.html>`_
   * How do I make Sentence Transformer models **faster**? `Sentence Transformers > Usage > Speeding up Inference <docs/sentence_transformer/usage/efficiency.html>`_
   * How do I **train/finetune** a Sentence Transformer model? `Sentence Transformers > Training Overview <docs/sentence_transformer/training_overview.html>`_
* Reranker Models:
   * How to **use** Cross Encoder models? `Cross Encoder > Usage <docs/cross_encoder/usage/usage.html>`_
   * What Cross Encoder **models** can I use? `Cross Encoder > Pretrained Models <docs/cross_encoder/pretrained_models.html>`_
   * How do I make Cross Encoder models **faster**? `Cross Encoder > Usage > Speeding up Inference <docs/cross_encoder/usage/efficiency.html>`_
   * How do I **train/finetune** a Cross Encoder model? `Cross Encoder > Training Overview <docs/cross_encoder/training_overview.html>`_
* Sparse Encoder Models:
   * How to **use** Sparse Encoder models? `Sparse Encoder > Usage <docs/sparse_encoder/usage/usage.html>`_
   * What Sparse Encoder **models** can I use? `Sparse Encoder > Pretrained Models <docs/sparse_encoder/pretrained_models.html>`_
   * How do I make Sparse Encoder models **faster**? `Sparse Encoder > Usage > Speeding up Inference <docs/sparse_encoder/usage/efficiency.html>`_
   * How do I **train/finetune** a Sparse Encoder model? `Sparse Encoder > Training Overview <docs/sparse_encoder/training_overview.html>`_
   * How do I **integrate** Sparse Encoder models with search engines? `Sparse Encoder > Vector Database Integration <examples/sparse_encoder/applications/semantic_search/README.html#vector-database-search>`_

Citing
======

If you find this repository helpful, feel free to cite our publication `Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks <https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10084>`_:

 .. code-block:: bibtex

  @inproceedings{reimers-2019-sentence-bert,
    title = "Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks",
    author = "Reimers, Nils and Gurevych, Iryna",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing",
    month = "11",
    year = "2019",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10084",
  }



If you use one of the multilingual models, feel free to cite our publication `Making Monolingual Sentence Embeddings Multilingual using Knowledge Distillation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.09813>`_:

 .. code-block:: bibtex

  @inproceedings{reimers-2020-multilingual-sentence-bert,
    title = "Making Monolingual Sentence Embeddings Multilingual using Knowledge Distillation",
    author = "Reimers, Nils and Gurevych, Iryna",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing",
    month = "11",
    year = "2020",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.09813",
  }



If you use the code for `data augmentation <https://github.com/UKPLab/sentence-transformers/tree/master/examples/sentence_transformer/training/data_augmentation>`_, feel free to cite our publication `Augmented SBERT: Data Augmentation Method for Improving Bi-Encoders for Pairwise Sentence Scoring Tasks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.08240>`_:

 .. code-block:: bibtex

  @inproceedings{thakur-2020-AugSBERT,
    title = "Augmented {SBERT}: Data Augmentation Method for Improving Bi-Encoders for Pairwise Sentence Scoring Tasks",
    author = "Thakur, Nandan and Reimers, Nils and Daxenberger, Johannes  and Gurevych, Iryna",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies",
    month = jun,
    year = "2021",
    address = "Online",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2021.naacl-main.28",
    pages = "296--310",
  }



.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Getting Started
   :hidden:

   docs/installation
   docs/quickstart
   docs/migration_guide

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Sentence Transformer
   :hidden:

   docs/sentence_transformer/usage/usage
   docs/sentence_transformer/pretrained_models
   docs/sentence_transformer/training_overview
   docs/sentence_transformer/dataset_overview
   docs/sentence_transformer/loss_overview
   docs/sentence_transformer/training/examples

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Cross Encoder
   :hidden:

   docs/cross_encoder/usage/usage
   docs/cross_encoder/pretrained_models
   docs/cross_encoder/training_overview
   docs/cross_encoder/loss_overview
   docs/cross_encoder/training/examples

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Sparse Encoder
   :hidden:

   docs/sparse_encoder/usage/usage
   docs/sparse_encoder/pretrained_models
   docs/sparse_encoder/training_overview
   docs/sentence_transformer/dataset_overview
   docs/sparse_encoder/loss_overview
   docs/sparse_encoder/training/examples

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :caption: Package Reference
   :glob:
   :hidden:

   docs/package_reference/sentence_transformer/index
   docs/package_reference/cross_encoder/index
   docs/package_reference/sparse_encoder/index
   docs/package_reference/util

Commit message:

docs: Update project metadata (#3553)
* docs: Update project metadata

* Correct the link

* Update links to avoid unnecessary redirect

index.rst, after:

.. attention::

   Sentence Transformers is transitioning from `UKP Lab <http://www.ukp.tu-darmstadt.de/>`_ to `🤗 Hugging Face <https://huggingface.co>`_. This formalizes the existing maintenance structure, as Hugging Face has been maintaining the project for the past two years. The project's development roadmap, support, and commitment to the community remain unchanged. Read the `full announcement <https://huggingface.co/blog/sentence-transformers-joins-hf>`_ for more details!

.. note::

   Sentence Transformers v5.1 recently released, bringing the ONNX and OpenVINO backends to SparseEncoder models. Read `SparseEncoder > Usage > Speeding up Inference <docs/sparse_encoder/usage/efficiency.html>`_ to read more about the performance boosts that you can expect, or read the `v5.1 Release Notes <https://github.com/huggingface/sentence-transformers/releases/tag/v5.1.0>`_ for information on the other changes.

SentenceTransformers Documentation
==================================

Sentence Transformers (a.k.a. SBERT) is the go-to Python module for accessing, using, and training state-of-the-art embedding and reranker models.
It can be used to compute embeddings using Sentence Transformer models (`quickstart <docs/quickstart.html#sentence-transformer>`_), to calculate similarity scores using Cross-Encoder (a.k.a. reranker) models (`quickstart <docs/quickstart.html#cross-encoder>`_), or to generate sparse embeddings using Sparse Encoder models (`quickstart <docs/quickstart.html#sparse-encoder>`_). This unlocks a wide range of applications, including `semantic search <examples/sentence_transformer/applications/semantic-search/README.html>`_, `semantic textual similarity <docs/sentence_transformer/usage/semantic_textual_similarity.html>`_, and `paraphrase mining <examples/sentence_transformer/applications/paraphrase-mining/README.html>`_.

A wide selection of over `10,000 pre-trained Sentence Transformers models <https://huggingface.co/models?library=sentence-transformers>`_ are available for immediate use on 🤗 Hugging Face, including many of the state-of-the-art models from the `Massive Text Embeddings Benchmark (MTEB) leaderboard <https://huggingface.co/spaces/mteb/leaderboard>`_. Additionally, it is easy to train or finetune your own `embedding models <docs/sentence_transformer/training_overview.html>`_, `reranker models <docs/cross_encoder/training_overview.html>`_, or `sparse encoder models <docs/sparse_encoder/training_overview.html>`_ using Sentence Transformers, enabling you to create custom models for your specific use cases.

Sentence Transformers was created by `UKP Lab <http://www.ukp.tu-darmstadt.de/>`_ and is being maintained by `🤗 Hugging Face <https://huggingface.co>`_. Don't hesitate to open an issue on the `Sentence Transformers repository <https://github.com/huggingface/sentence-transformers>`_ if something is broken or if you have further questions.

Usage
=====
.. seealso::
  
   See the `Quickstart <docs/quickstart.html>`_ for more quick information on how to use Sentence Transformers.

Working with Sentence Transformer models is straightforward:

.. sidebar:: Installation

   You can install *sentence-transformers* using pip:
   
   .. code-block:: python
   
      pip install -U sentence-transformers
   
   We recommend **Python 3.9+** and **PyTorch 1.11.0+**. See `installation <docs/installation.html>`_ for further installation options.

.. tab:: Embedding Models

   .. code-block:: python
   
      from sentence_transformers import SentenceTransformer
   
      # 1. Load a pretrained Sentence Transformer model
      model = SentenceTransformer("all-MiniLM-L6-v2")
   
      # The sentences to encode
      sentences = [
          "The weather is lovely today.",
          "It's so sunny outside!",
          "He drove to the stadium.",
      ]
   
      # 2. Calculate embeddings by calling model.encode()
      embeddings = model.encode(sentences)
      print(embeddings.shape)
      # [3, 384]
   
      # 3. Calculate the embedding similarities
      similarities = model.similarity(embeddings, embeddings)
      print(similarities)
      # tensor([[1.0000, 0.6660, 0.1046],
      #         [0.6660, 1.0000, 0.1411],
      #         [0.1046, 0.1411, 1.0000]])

.. tab:: Reranker Models

   .. code-block:: python
   
      from sentence_transformers import CrossEncoder
      
      # 1. Load a pretrained CrossEncoder model
      model = CrossEncoder("cross-encoder/ms-marco-MiniLM-L6-v2")
      
      # The texts for which to predict similarity scores
      query = "How many people live in Berlin?"
      passages = [
          "Berlin had a population of 3,520,031 registered inhabitants in an area of 891.82 square kilometers.",
          "Berlin has a yearly total of about 135 million day visitors, making it one of the most-visited cities in the European Union.",
          "In 2013 around 600,000 Berliners were registered in one of the more than 2,300 sport and fitness clubs.",
      ]
      
      # 2a. Either predict scores pairs of texts
      scores = model.predict([(query, passage) for passage in passages])
      print(scores)
      # => [8.607139 5.506266 6.352977]
      
      # 2b. Or rank a list of passages for a query
      ranks = model.rank(query, passages, return_documents=True)
      
      print("Query:", query)
      for rank in ranks:
          print(f"- #{rank['corpus_id']} ({rank['score']:.2f}): {rank['text']}")
      """
      Query: How many people live in Berlin?
      - #0 (8.61): Berlin had a population of 3,520,031 registered inhabitants in an area of 891.82 square kilometers.
      - #2 (6.35): In 2013 around 600,000 Berliners were registered in one of the more than 2,300 sport and fitness clubs.
      - #1 (5.51): Berlin has a yearly total of about 135 million day visitors, making it one of the most-visited cities in the European Union.
      """

.. tab:: Sparse Encoder Models

   .. code-block:: python
   
      from sentence_transformers import SparseEncoder
      
      # 1. Load a pretrained SparseEncoder model
      model = SparseEncoder("naver/splade-cocondenser-ensembledistil")
      
      # The sentences to encode
      sentences = [
          "The weather is lovely today.",
          "It's so sunny outside!",
          "He drove to the stadium.",
      ]
      
      # 2. Calculate sparse embeddings by calling model.encode()
      embeddings = model.encode(sentences)
      print(embeddings.shape)
      # [3, 30522] - sparse representation with vocabulary size dimensions
      
      # 3. Calculate the embedding similarities
      similarities = model.similarity(embeddings, embeddings)
      print(similarities)
      # tensor([[   35.629,     9.154,     0.098],
      #         [    9.154,    27.478,     0.019],
      #         [    0.098,     0.019,    29.553]])

      # 4. Check sparsity stats
      stats = SparseEncoder.sparsity(embeddings)
      print(f"Sparsity: {stats['sparsity_ratio']:.2%}")
      # Sparsity: 99.84%
   
What Next?
==========

Consider reading one of the following sections to answer the related questions:

* Embedding Models:
   * How to **use** Sentence Transformer models? `Sentence Transformers > Usage <docs/sentence_transformer/usage/usage.html>`_
   * What Sentence Transformer **models** can I use? `Sentence Transformers > Pretrained Models <docs/sentence_transformer/pretrained_models.html>`_
   * How do I make Sentence Transformer models **faster**? `Sentence Transformers > Usage > Speeding up Inference <docs/sentence_transformer/usage/efficiency.html>`_
   * How do I **train/finetune** a Sentence Transformer model? `Sentence Transformers > Training Overview <docs/sentence_transformer/training_overview.html>`_
* Reranker Models:
   * How to **use** Cross Encoder models? `Cross Encoder > Usage <docs/cross_encoder/usage/usage.html>`_
   * What Cross Encoder **models** can I use? `Cross Encoder > Pretrained Models <docs/cross_encoder/pretrained_models.html>`_
   * How do I make Cross Encoder models **faster**? `Cross Encoder > Usage > Speeding up Inference <docs/cross_encoder/usage/efficiency.html>`_
   * How do I **train/finetune** a Cross Encoder model? `Cross Encoder > Training Overview <docs/cross_encoder/training_overview.html>`_
* Sparse Encoder Models:
   * How to **use** Sparse Encoder models? `Sparse Encoder > Usage <docs/sparse_encoder/usage/usage.html>`_
   * What Sparse Encoder **models** can I use? `Sparse Encoder > Pretrained Models <docs/sparse_encoder/pretrained_models.html>`_
   * How do I make Sparse Encoder models **faster**? `Sparse Encoder > Usage > Speeding up Inference <docs/sparse_encoder/usage/efficiency.html>`_
   * How do I **train/finetune** a Sparse Encoder model? `Sparse Encoder > Training Overview <docs/sparse_encoder/training_overview.html>`_
   * How do I **integrate** Sparse Encoder models with search engines? `Sparse Encoder > Vector Database Integration <examples/sparse_encoder/applications/semantic_search/README.html#vector-database-search>`_

Citing
======

If you find this repository helpful, feel free to cite our publication `Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks <https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10084>`_:

 .. code-block:: bibtex

  @inproceedings{reimers-2019-sentence-bert,
    title = "Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks",
    author = "Reimers, Nils and Gurevych, Iryna",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing",
    month = "11",
    year = "2019",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10084",
  }



If you use one of the multilingual models, feel free to cite our publication `Making Monolingual Sentence Embeddings Multilingual using Knowledge Distillation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.09813>`_:

 .. code-block:: bibtex

  @inproceedings{reimers-2020-multilingual-sentence-bert,
    title = "Making Monolingual Sentence Embeddings Multilingual using Knowledge Distillation",
    author = "Reimers, Nils and Gurevych, Iryna",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing",
    month = "11",
    year = "2020",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.09813",
  }



If you use the code for `data augmentation <https://github.com/huggingface/sentence-transformers/tree/master/examples/sentence_transformer/training/data_augmentation>`_, feel free to cite our publication `Augmented SBERT: Data Augmentation Method for Improving Bi-Encoders for Pairwise Sentence Scoring Tasks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.08240>`_:

 .. code-block:: bibtex

  @inproceedings{thakur-2020-AugSBERT,
    title = "Augmented {SBERT}: Data Augmentation Method for Improving Bi-Encoders for Pairwise Sentence Scoring Tasks",
    author = "Thakur, Nandan and Reimers, Nils and Daxenberger, Johannes  and Gurevych, Iryna",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies",
    month = jun,
    year = "2021",
    address = "Online",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2021.naacl-main.28",
    pages = "296--310",
  }



.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Getting Started
   :hidden:

   docs/installation
   docs/quickstart
   docs/migration_guide

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Sentence Transformer
   :hidden:

   docs/sentence_transformer/usage/usage
   docs/sentence_transformer/pretrained_models
   docs/sentence_transformer/training_overview
   docs/sentence_transformer/dataset_overview
   docs/sentence_transformer/loss_overview
   docs/sentence_transformer/training/examples

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Cross Encoder
   :hidden:

   docs/cross_encoder/usage/usage
   docs/cross_encoder/pretrained_models
   docs/cross_encoder/training_overview
   docs/cross_encoder/loss_overview
   docs/cross_encoder/training/examples

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Sparse Encoder
   :hidden:

   docs/sparse_encoder/usage/usage
   docs/sparse_encoder/pretrained_models
   docs/sparse_encoder/training_overview
   docs/sentence_transformer/dataset_overview
   docs/sparse_encoder/loss_overview
   docs/sparse_encoder/training/examples

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :caption: Package Reference
   :glob:
   :hidden:

   docs/package_reference/sentence_transformer/index
   docs/package_reference/cross_encoder/index
   docs/package_reference/sparse_encoder/index
   docs/package_reference/util
